skills.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: skills
subtitle: A short skills description
---

## Organising
In general I like well organised work (following Agile philosophy for instance),
and I find it more effective to be conducted in person/on the phone,
although all of my open source involvement was by email.

I'm used to working in projects from large (several companies, my PhD) to small team (most of my research projects), to one person project (most of my woodworking projects).


## Graphical design
I'm a strong supporter of graphical communication.
I find illustrations extremely usefull to communicate ideas (no artistic pretention!).
As such, my thesis manuscript and other projects are full of illustrations.
I like vector software (Illustrator, inkscape), pixel based software (photoshop,paint.net), and video (Premiere), although it takes such a long time to get a decent result.
I use 3D software (Sketchup) only when I have to.

## Research methodology
I usually solve my research problems by looking for solutions outside my research community,
rather than start from scratch.
As such I'm a strong open source / open data proponent.
I have a rather experimental approach, I like to test an idea with real data as soon as possible.
Then the solution is improved gradually, expanded, etc.

## Research tools
I used extensively databases, computational geometry, image processing, machine learning and optimisation in my PhD,
along with traditionnal GIS methods.
My recent PostDoc also had a significant web-based part.

## Teaching
I shared my PhD time between 2 academic laboratories and a company, which is already much, as such I could'nt teach during these years.
I enjoy giving talks/lectures, especially when I can rely on well illustrated slides.
I was oral examiner in mathematics for two years.

## Technical skills
I have well rounded skills for computer, with good understanding of hardware, using several langages (C, C++, Python, R, SQL), working with distant server and virtual boxes, using both windows and Linux.
I used ot write scripts (bash), but nowadays I tend to favor python.
Git is used for all my projects, latex for all the articles.

## Handicraft skills
I have some experience in designing (especially the problem solving) and 3D modelling.
Regarding woodworking I have experience with all the major tools of a woodshop (band saw, table saw, tbale router, planner, etc.).
I especially like hand tools such as chisel and hand planes. 
I'm used to restore old tools using a variety of sharpening stones (both synthetic and natural).

Commit message:

adding content about training
(cherry picked from commit 38b26d703560f33ef4cb093a5ef8873b99c537ec)

skills.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: skills
subtitle: A short skills description
---

## Organising
In general I like well organised work (following Agile philosophy for instance),
and I find it more effective to be conducted in person/on the phone,
although all of my open source involvement was by email.

I'm used to working in projects from large (several companies, my PhD) to small team (most of my research projects), to one person project (most of my woodworking projects).
I'm also used to be a freelancer (consulting and training), and as such adapting fast to my client business context.


## Graphical design
I'm a strong supporter of graphical communication.
I find illustrations extremely usefull to communicate ideas (no artistic pretention!).
As such, my thesis manuscript and other projects are full of illustrations.
I like vector software (Illustrator, inkscape), pixel based software (photoshop,paint.net), and video (Premiere), although it takes such a long time to get a decent result.
I use 3D software (Sketchup) only when I have to.

## Research methodology
I usually solve my research problems by looking for solutions outside my research community,
rather than start from scratch.
As such I'm a strong open source / open data proponent.
I have a rather experimental approach, I like to test an idea with real data as soon as possible.
Then the solution is improved gradually, expanded, etc.

## Research tools
I used extensively databases, computational geometry, image processing, machine learning and optimisation in my PhD,
along with traditionnal GIS methods.
My recent PostDoc also had a significant web-based part.

## Teaching
I shared my PhD time between 2 academic laboratories and a company, which is already much, as such I could'nt teach during these years.
I enjoy giving talks/lectures, especially when I can rely on well illustrated slides.
I was oral examiner in mathematics for two years.
More recently I started a side activity of consulting and training (as a freelance).
I've really enjoyed training, as beside the obvious, you goal is also to understand quickly your "student" working context and knowledge.

## Technical skills
I have well rounded skills for computer, with good understanding of hardware, using several langages (C, C++, Python, R, SQL), working with distant server and virtual boxes, using both windows and Linux.
I used ot write scripts (bash), but nowadays I tend to favor python.
Git is used for all my projects, latex for all the articles.

## Handicraft skills
I have some experience in designing (especially the problem solving) and 3D modelling.
Regarding woodworking I have experience with all the major tools of a woodshop (band saw, table saw, tbale router, planner, etc.).
I especially like hand tools such as chisel and hand planes. 
I'm used to restore old tools using a variety of sharpening stones (both synthetic and natural).
